来源：https://gradschool.ustc.edu.cn/article/3482
标题：2026年夏季学期研究生网上选课须知

我校研究生修读课程之前必须进行网上选课，可通过任何一台联接校园网的计算机登录研究生综合服务平台的选课系统（网址为http://yjs1.ustc.edu.cn）。
在登录系统前，请务必注意以下内容：
1、请使用“统一身份认证”登录研究生综合服务平台，账号为学号，首次登录可以通过“找回/修改密码”获取初始密码。
2、本次网上选课只限对本学期开设的研究生课程进行，参选对象不包含未报到的新生。本学期课程从7月6日开始上课，具体时间安排如下：
（1）选课开始：6月17日15:00
（2）选课、退课截止：7月13日10:00
3、研究生每学期选课累计不超过23学分。研究生选课应慎重，课程一旦选定后，不可更改。在某课程开始授课三周内，研究生若需退课，须填写《研究生课程退选单》（研究生院主页培养文档中下载），经导师、院（系）、室主任批准，至开课系办理有关退课手续；课程开始授课三周后，研究生不得退课。
办理正式选课手续的研究生必须参加课程教学的各个环节，无故不参加课程学习及考试者，成绩按旷考处理。确因特殊情况需要请假的，需持导师签字和培养单位盖章的情况说明，经任课老师同意后办理，不得在缺勤日课堂结束后补充请假。
4、由于学校校区较多且部分校区距离较远，请大家选课前务必注意自己所在校区与开课校区间的交通问题。住在苏州研究院、上海研究院和融合学院的学生，请选自己学院开设的课程，校本部的学生也不要选择在上述院开设的课程。同一个半天的课程最好在同一个校区完成，选择非自己所在校区的课程，请留足交通时间。东区、西区、北区、中区间距离较近；先研院和高新校区间距离较近。
5、由于教学资源有限，为保障正常的教学秩序，部分院系暂时无法接收其他院、系的研究生（含代培生和进修生）选修课程。选课后期可能会开通部分限选课程，请大家及时关注网上信息。
6、选课系统支持本研课程互选，如有研究生想选某门本科生课程，可以向开课系的本科生教学办公室提出，开课系将在条件允许的情况开放课程。
7、研究生选课过程中若遇到无法登录研究生综合服务平台及选课政策问题，请咨询研究生院培养办公室（63607533）。
研究生院培养处
2026年5月
Instructions on Postgraduate Course Selection for 2026 Summer Semester
Before taking courses, all graduate students of USTC shall select courses online on YJS1 platform (http://yjs1.ustc.edu.cn) through any computer connected to the campus network.
Please pay attention to the following issues before logging into YJS1 platform:
1. It is required to log in YJS1 platform through USTC CAS (Central Authorization Service),the account number is student ID. You can obtain your initial password by using the "Retrieve/Modify Password" function for the first time.
2. The course selection is only limited to the postgraduate courses offered for 2026 Summer Semester, classes of which will start from July 6. The specific schedule is as follows:
(1) Start of course selection: June 17th at 15:00
(2) Deadline for course selection and withdrawal: July 13rd at 10:00
3. Graduate students can select no more than a total of 23 credits for each semester. The course selection should be conducted with caution, as it cannot be changed once completed. Within three weeks of the beginning of a course, students who need to withdraw the course shall fill in the Graduate Student Course Withdrawal Form (which you can download from the website of Graduate School), approved by the supervisor and head of school department and then go to the course’s department to handle the relevant procedures. Three weeks after the beginning of a course, graduate students are not allowed to withdraw it.
Students who have completed the course selection procedures shall attend all aspects of the course. Those who fail to attend the course or the exam without special reason will be treated as absenteeism. For those who indeed need to request leave due to special circumstances, a formal statement detailing the situation—signed by the supervisor and affixed with the official seal of the training institution—must be submitted. The leave application shall be processed only upon the approval of the course instructor, and retroactively applying for leave after the conclusion of the class on the day of absence is strictly prohibited.
4. As there are more than one campus and some campuses are separated with distance, please pay attention to the traffic issue among campuses before selecting courses. Students who live in Suzhou Institute for Advanced Research, Ustc Shanghai Institute For Advanced Studies and other research institutes, are recommended to select courses of their own institutes. Students who live in the main campus are suggested not to choose courses from above institutes neither. It is best to complete the same half-day course in the same campus. If you choose courses taught in other campuses than where you live, please leave enough time for transportation. The East Campus, West Campus, North Campus and Central Campus are relatively close to each other, while Institute of Advanced Technology is relatively close to the campus in New & High Technology Industrial Development Zone.
5. Due to limited teaching resources, in order to guarantee the normal teaching order, some departments cannot accept course selection from students of other schools/ departments (including visiting scholar) for the time being.
6. The course selection system supports the mutual selection between postgraduate courses and undergraduate courses. Graduate student who would like to choose a certain undergraduate course shall submit a proposal to the undergraduate teaching office of the course’s department and the course can be opened if the conditions allow it.
7. If you encounter any problem in logging in YJS1 platform or Course selection policies, please consult the Academic Affairs Office of Graduate School (Tel:63607533).
