来源：https://gradschool.ustc.edu.cn/article/3500
标题：Instructions on Postgraduate Course Selection for 2026 Fall Semester

Before taking courses, all graduate students of USTC shall select courses online on YJS platform (http://yjs1.ustc.edu.cn), Please pay attention to the following issues before logging into YJS platform:
1. Logging in YJS platform supports USTC CAS (Central Authorization Service). If you own an USTC CAS account, you can log in with USTC CAS account (Student number, not GID) and password.
2. The course selection is only limited to the postgraduate courses offered for 2026 Fall Semester, classes of which will start from September 7th (the second week of 2026 Fall Semester). The specific schedule is as follows:
(1) Course selection starts on July 23rd at 15:00
(2) Course selection & withdrawal ends on September 21st at 9:00
(3) Sortition of courses: from August 29th 14:00 to August 29th 17:00 (The sortition will be done automatically by the system, during which it is not allowed to choose or withdraw courses).
3. Graduate students can select no more than a total of 23 credits for each semester. The course selection should be conducted with caution, as it cannot be changed once completed. Within three weeks of the beginning of a course, students who need to withdraw the course shall fill in the Graduate Student Course Withdrawal Form (which you can download from the website of Graduate School), approved by the supervisor and head of school department and then go to the course’s department to handle the relevant procedures. Three weeks after the beginning of a course, graduate students are not allowed to withdraw it.
Students who have completed the course selection procedures shall attend all aspects of the course. Those who fail to attend the course or the exam without special reason will be treated as absenteeism. For those who indeed need to request leave due to special circumstances, a formal statement detailing the situation-signed by the supervisor and affixed with the official seal of the training institution-must be submitted. The leave application shall be processed only upon the approval of the course instructor, and retroactively applying for leave after the conclusion of the class on the day of absence is strictly prohibited.
4. As there are more than one campus and some campuses are separated with distance, please pay attention to the traffic issue among campuses before selecting courses. Students who live in Suzhou Institute for Advanced Research, Ustc Shanghai Institute For Advanced Studies and other research institutes, are recommended to select courses of their own institutes. Students who live in the main campus are suggested not to choose courses from above institutes neither. It is best to complete the same half-day course in the same campus. If you choose courses taught in other campuses than where you live, please leave enough time for transportation. The East Campus, West Campus, North Campus ,Central Campus and TaiHuLu Campus are relatively close to each other, while far away from to the campus in New & High Technology Industrial Development Zone.
5. Due to limited teaching resources, in order to guarantee the normal teaching order, some departments cannot accept course selection from students of other schools/ departments (including visiting scholar) for the time being.
6. The course selection system supports the mutual selection between postgraduate courses and undergraduate courses. Graduate student who would like to choose a certain undergraduate course shall submit a proposal to the undergraduate teaching office of the course’s department and the course can be opened if the conditions allow it.
7. If you encounter any problem about Course selection policies, please consult the Academic Affairs Office of Graduate School (Tel:63607533).
Graduate School
July, 2026
